---
title: "Release 0.0.14: Extended Bach time-series functionality"
description: We’ve made a number of updates to the Bach modeling library that make wrangling & exploring (time-series) data easier & more advanced. And of course it also works on the full dataset.
slug: release-0.0.14-bach-time-series/
tags: [releases]
image: /img/open-graph/og-bach-time-series.png
authors: ivarpruijn
---

<head>
  <meta property="og:title" content="Release v0.0.14: Extended Bach time-series functionality" />
</head>


*We've released v0.0.14 with a number of updates to the 
[Bach modeling library](https://objectiv.io/docs/modeling/) that make it a lot easier to wrangle & explore 
(time-series) data.*

<!--truncate-->

[Bach](https://objectiv.io/docs/modeling/) enables you to build models using dataframes and pandas-like 
operations, and run them on the full dataset as SQL. It also includes operations that are specifically 
designed to work with datasets that embrace the [open analytics taxonomy](https://objectiv.io/docs/taxonomy/).

Especially when dealing with time-series data, granular control over the dataset is key. The newly added Bach 
operations provide more granular control when wrangling/exploring time-series data. Like any Bach operation, 
they work on the full SQL dataset.

A few highlights of the features that we’ve added:
- `TimeDelta` numeric support: Get days/seconds/microseconds/components between two time series, or the quantile per numeric/timedelta column.
- `stack()`/`unstack()` support: Reshape a DataFrame or Series having a multi-level index, pivoting its columns back and forth.
- `cut()` support: Bin values into discrete intervals, e.g. to segment into groups of age ranges.
- `qcut()` support: Bin values into equal-sized buckets based on rank or quantiles.
- `dropna()` support: drop rows that contain nullable values in DataFrame and Series.
- `DataFrame.fillna()` support: fill `null` gaps, with `value`, `ffill`, and `bfill` methods.
- `sort_by` and `ascending` parameters support for `DataFrame.drop_duplicates()`.

Other features for exploration and modeling that were added:
- [`quantile`](https://objectiv.io/docs/modeling/DataFrame/bach.DataFrame.quantile/#bach-dataframe-quantile) 
support: to return values at the given quantile of numeric columns.
- `display_sql_markdown` support: to display SQL results as Markdown, making it easier to read in notebooks.
- `describe` support for all values: generates descriptive statistics that summarize the shape of a dataset’s distribution, such as count, max, min, mean, and standard deviation.
- Variable time aggregation in models in model hub.

## The details
Check out:
- [Bach in our repo](https://github.com/objectiv/objectiv-analytics/tree/main/bach), for how to run the 
library.
- The [Bach modeling library docs](https://objectiv.io/docs/modeling/), for how to use all the new 
functionality. 
- The [full changelog](https://github.com/objectiv/objectiv-analytics/releases/tag/v0.0.14).

Enjoy!
